the creature I'm looking for is easiest
to find in the dark using ultraviolet
light
whoa man do you see that look at that
absolutely bizarre e glowing absolutely
bright green nobody has any idea what
evolutionary advantage that confers
although they now live in some of the
driest most hostile environments on
earth like here in the desert scorpions
evolved as aquatic predators before
emerging onto the land about 380 million
years ago they've adapted to be able to
survive the extreme heat then can go for
over a year without food or water and
despite their fearsome reputation 98% of
scorpion species have a sting that is no
worse than a bees but perhaps the most
fascinating thing about scorpions from
an evolutionary perspective is the way
that they catch their prey see that he
spreads his legs out on the surface of
the sand and that's because he uses his
legs to detect vibrations
scorpions hunt insects like this beetle
it's almost impossible to see them in
the dark so the Scorpion has evolved
another way to track them down by
adapting its sense of touch
as the insects feet move across the sand
they set off tiny waves of vibration
through the ground if just a single
grain of sand is disturbed within range
of the Scorpion it will sense it through
the tips of its legs they can detect
vibrations that are around the size of a
single atom as a sweet past
by measuring the time delay between the
waves arriving at each of its feet the
Scorpion can calculate the precise
direction and distance to its prey
and that ability to detect vibrations
and use them to build up a picture of
our surroundings is something that we
share with scorpions